1

ANNEX 1 - Guide for Applicants
AIoD OC1-PrivateSector
Europe’s trusted AI gateway

Disclaimer
Funded by the European Union, under grant agreement №.101146490. Views and opinions expressed
are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or
European Commission. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible
for them.

2

Table of Contents
1.

What is DeployAI?

3

2.

What is the AIoD OC1-PrivateSector offer?

4

3.

Who can apply and how?

5

4.

3.1.

Types of applicants

5

3.2.

Types of projects

6

3.3.

Funding conditions

7

3.4.

Application process (for Stage 1)

8

3.5.

Other application requirements and considerations

9

3.6.

Technical/ feasibility assessment

9

How will applications be evaluated and selected?

10

4.1.

Eligibility check

11

4.2.

Evaluation no.1 (Selection for Stage 1)

11

4.3.

Evaluation no. 2 (Selection for Stage 2)

13

4.4.

Evaluation no. 3 (Selection for Stage 3)

13

4.5.

Appeals

13

5.

What happens after selection in Evaluation no.1?

14

6.

What is the AIoD OC1-PrivateSector and its requirements?

15

7.

6.1.

Programme Stages

15

6.2.

Programme review

17

What else is important to know?

18

7.1.

Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)

18

7.2.

On conflicts of interest

18

7.3.

Ethical issues

18

7.4.

Data protection

19

7.5.

Confidentiality

19

7.6.

Promotion of the action and ensuring visibility of the EU funding

19

7.7.

Checks and reviews

19

8.

Relevant links and contacts

20

9.

Relevant Open Call definitions

21

3

1. What is AI-on-Demand Platform?
The AI-on-Demand is Europe’s collaborative AI homebase. As a trusted gateway to a thriving AI
ecosystem, it connects businesses, researchers, and public organizations with reliable resources. By
uniting Europe’s AI community, the platform actively reduces information fragmentation, making it
easier than ever to discover and leverage valuable European AI assets.
To make scalable AI a reality for everyone, AIoD operates as a comprehensive ecosystem rather than a
static tech catalogue. It offers guidance, matchmaking, and a vibrant marketplace on a single online
platform, delivering on four key promises:
•

•

•

•

An Accessible One-Stop Shop: Designed for organizations of any maturity level, the platform
supports the entire AI lifecycle. From assessing initial needs to commercializing fully developed
solutions, AIoD eliminates tech-savvy gatekeeping and provides clear, low-threshold paths for
deploying AI.
Operations Under European Values: As a proud European alternative, the platform ensures all
operations are fundamentally secure, open, and transparent. It guarantees strict adherence to
ethics and regulatory compliance.
Freedom to Innovate: Built on vendor-independent and open-source principles, the platform
protects you from vendor lock-in. It gives you the freedom to build on your own terms,
significantly increasing your innovative potential.
Pan-European Reach: AIoD intelligently guides users to the solutions that benefit them most,
providing the foundation to scale ideas and businesses across all EU member states from
within a single, unified ecosystem.

Ultimately, AI-on-Demand ensures that the transformative power of artificial intelligence is within reach
for everyone, offering the tools, connections, and ethical framework needed to thrive.
The platform offers an extensive AI resource catalogue and Marketplace, including European large
language models (LLMs), alongside open APIs and interfaces that support interoperability across cloud,
edge, and high-performance computing environments.1 By integrating with key European initiatives such
as AI Factories, EDIHs, TEFs, Data Spaces, and SIMPL, AIoD Platform strengthens collaboration within
the European AI ecosystem while ensuring quality, trust, and long-term sustainability through robust
governance and qualification processes.

Project DeployAI
Developing and deploying AI-On-Demand Platform (AIoD Platform) is the main objective of the
overarching project for this Open Call: DeployAI Project, funded by the European Union Digital Europe
Programme (DIGITAL) under grant agreement №.101146490 and bringing together a consortium of 27
entities (DeployAI Consortium). The DeployAI Financial Support to Third Parties Programme (DeployAI
Funding Programme) seeks to boost the adoption of the AIoD Platform and boost the AI innovation
across Europe. This Funding Programme is composed of 2 Open Calls, targeting both the Private (OC1)
and the Public Sector (OC2). This Guide for Applicants introduces the framework and selection
conditions of the first Open Call: AIoD OC1-PrivateSector aims to accelerate the integration, market

1

The Core components of the AIoD Platform are detailed in https://www.aiodp.ai/.

4

uptake, and real-world deployment of mature European AI solutions within the AIoD Platform,
strengthening the EU AI ecosystem and driving trustworthy AI adoption across sectors.
The selected AI Providers are called to be showcased in the Marketplace, Business Navigator and
specific industry Events, and to be integrated with the core components of the AIoD Platform, deploy
their products in AI adopters of their choice and serve as beta testers to the AIoD Platform.

2. What is the AIoD OC1-PrivateSector offer?
An Open Call (OC) is a competitive process by which eligible applicants apply to have access to a
specific Funding Programme. AIoD OC1-PrivateSector is the Competitive Process to access the
DeployAI Funding Programme.
Applications to AIoD OC1-PrivateSector will be accepted from 8 April 2026 until 8 June 2026. After the
selection is completed, selected applicants will be invited to sign the sub-grant agreement and enter the
DeployAI Funding Programme.
AIoD OC1-PrivateSector will follow a three-stage funnel approach, ensuring that only the most relevant
and promising applicants advance to the next phase. Participation is strictly limited to those who apply
and are selected to start Stage 1.
In Stage 1 - Select & Pitch (from 1 September 2026 to 30 September 2026), up to 50 AI Products (TRL>=7)
will be selected from the initial pool of eligible applicants based on technical readiness, business
potential and relevance of the AI Solution for AIoD Platform. AI Providers2 will receive 5.000€ to: i) refine
their business concept and alignment with AIoD Platform’s Vision and Objectives, ii) refine integration
details with AIoD Platform; iii) give initial feedback about the AIoD Platform; and iv) pitch their solutions
at an in-person industry event (September 2026), gaining visibility through AIoD Platform channels.
A smaller group of 20 AI Products will be selected during the same pitch event and will progress to
Stage 2 - Integration (from 1 October 2026 to 31 December 2026). In this stage, they will receive €35,000
in support to fully integrate their solutions into the AIoD Platform using the core components of the
Platform, with guidance from mentors (DeployAI Consortium partners). They will be expected to
implement their business models and bring customers onto the AIoD Platform, while serving as their
beta-testers and providing active feedback to the Platform and actively helping identify problems and
suggest improvements. To proceed to Stage 3, they must submit a sub-project to deploy their solution
into one (1) specific AI Adopter3 of their choosing, who will also receive funding as described below. By
the end of Stage 2, a second industry event will be held, during which results of integration will be
showcased and sub-projects will be pitched.
Based on the robustness of the business model, the outcomes of the AIoD Platform integration (number
of customers brought into AIoD Platform, etc) and the quality/relevance of the implementation Plan, 10
sub-projects, will be selected to Stage 3 - Deployment (from 15 January 2027 to 15 April 2027). Subprojects must be led by AI providers participating in Stage 2, in consortium with AI adopters, and will
receive financial support of up to 35.000€: €20.000 for AI Provider and €15.000 for AI Adopter. The
implementation will be closely monitored to ensure impactful deployment and measurable KPIs. These
results will be showcased in a final public event and transformed into Use cases to promote the
Platform.

2
3

The definition of AI Provider and AI Adopter are included in Table 8.
Idem

5

For all 3 Stages, beneficiaries will have the support of a mentor to monitor project progress and facilitate
communication with technical partners involved in the AIoD Platform development.
The maximum contribution for AI Providers is 60.000€, to be paid in form of lump sums, as and if they
progress through the Stages: 5.000€ (Stage 1) + 35.000€ (Stage 2) + 20.000€ (Stage 3). The maximum
contribution to AI Adopters, to be included in Stage 3, is 15.000€.

Industry Events will be organized within the implementation period, structured in two parts: The first
part (day 1) follows the F6S initiative “AI Talks” where the AIoD Platform will be promoted and relevant
AI topics relevant to the EU context will be discussed. The second part (day 2) will be focused on
pitching and selection of proposals for the subsequent phase.
●
●
●

Event 1 | AI Talks + Pitching session for Stage 1 (to select the AI solutions to start Stage 2).
Event 2 | AI Talks + Pitching session for Stage 2 (to select the sub-projects to start Stage 3)
Event 3 | Demo Day, showcase the success of the integration and implementation.

Relevant links and contacts:
●
●
●

AIoD Platform Homepage: https://www.aiodp.ai/
Open call application form: https://www.f6s.com/aiod-oc1privatesector/apply
Contact us: aiod.opencalls@f6s.com

3. Who can apply and how?
3.1. Types of applicants
In the framework of the DeployAI project, the AIoD OC1-PrivateSector is looking for AI Products to fully
integrate their solutions in the AIoD Platform, by aligning the business models with the AIoD Platform,
to providing feedback and to deploying their solutions in relevant AI Adopters.

3.1.1. Eligible applicants
Eligible applicants for the AIoD OC1-PrivateSector are:
● For Stage 1 and Stage 2: Single Legal entities, which can be either startups, SMEs or research
organisations (RTOs or academia).
● For Stage 3: Consortia of legal entities, led by the organisation that implemented Stages 1 and
2, in partnership with a legal entity acting as AI Adopter (businesses, institutions, associations,
organisations). The leading partner (AI Provider) will be responsible for the technical
developments, the other member(s) (AI Adopter) will be the end user(s) responsible to facilitate
the deployment of the specific solution and validate the technical developments. Applicants
that were not successful in Stage1 or Stage 2 will not be eligible for Stage 3.
● Relevant notes:
o Please consult the EU SME Definition for details on what constitutes an SME.
o A signed version of the Declaration of Honour and the SME Declaration will be requested
during the contract preparation phase.

6

3.1.2. Eligible countries
Eligible entities for funding under this Open Call must be legal entities established in:
• European Union Member States, with a valid VAT and PIC number.
• DIGITAL Europe associated countries (those that have signed an agreement with the EU as
identified in the DIGITAL Programme Guide) according to the updated list published by the
European Commission.4 Legal entities from countries subject to EU restrictive measures
(sanctions) during the application phase will not be considered.
Please note that, under Art 12 (6) of Digital Europe Regulation 2021/694, this Open Call is restricted to
legal entities established in and/or controlled by Member States (or in specified eligible third
countries).5
The AIoD OC1-PrivateSector follows the rules applied by the EC for the DIGITAL Europe Program in
terms of geographical coverage, eligibility, and exclusions, which take precedence.

3.1.3. Multiple submissions
The AIoD OC1-PrivateSector will accept a maximum of 1 (one) application per applicant.
In case an applicant submits more than 1 (one) application, only the application submitted last will be
considered.

3.2. Types of projects
The AIoD OC1-PrivateSector aims to fund companies with innovative and impactful solutions to:
●
●
●
●

Be fully integrated AIoD Platform, its Marketplace and Business Navigator (Stage 1-2)
Bring traction and clients to the AIoD Platform (Stage 2-3)
Develop Use cases powered by AIoD Platform (Stages 1-3)
Become beta-testers for AIoD Platform (Stage 2-3)

When applying, the AI Providers, submitting AI Products at TRL 7 or above, will need to demonstrate the
technical readiness, business potential and relevance of the AI Solution for AIoD Platform, by submitting
a Business Model concept and an integration roadmap.
Proposals that do not demonstrate that the TRL is at level 7 or above, or do not address ethical, privacy
and responsible AI concerns, or do not demonstrate clear alignment with AIoD platform will not be
considered eligible.

4

The reference date to assess acceding countries, candidate countries and potential candidates is the date of
signature of the DeployAI Consortium Agreement (December 2023).
5 Ownership Control Declaration is available in Annex 6 - Ownership Control Declaration.

7

In addition, applicants must be registered on the AIoD Platform and Business Navigator before
submitting their application.
The most relevant 50 companies to be selected for Stage 1 will refine their business plan and the
integration roadmap to align with AIoD Platform, to provide feedback to the AIoD Platform and pitch
their solutions at an industry event. The 20 Products selected to progress to Stage 2 will fully integrate
their solutions into the AIoD Platform, with guidance from mentors (DeployAI Consortium partners), and
become beta-testers to the Platform.
In order to proceed to Stage 3, these 20 companies will need to submit a project to deploy their solution,
having a specific AI Adopter as their consortium partners, while being closely monitored to ensure
impactful deployment and measurable KPIs. The implementation period will be 3-months and the
results will be showcased in a final public event and transformed into Use cases to promote the
Platform.

3.3. Funding conditions
Any entity, applying individually or as part of a consortium, will only be considered for funding once.
Each application may receive a maximum of up to 60.000€. However, funding is dependent on
progression across the different Stages. The total amount requested must represent 100% of the project
costs (including indirect costs). All applications will be required to provide a justification of the planned
costs and resources of the project, at each Stage.
Funding is foreseen to support the following categories of costs:
●
●
●
●
●

Project management;
Research and technical development;
Testing and piloting;
Communication, promotion, and exploitation;
Travel (as required).

The type of costs that may be reported include human resources, other direct costs, and indirect costs.
Subcontracting is not eligible in this open call.
Funds will be disbursed in lump sums at the end of each Stage and pending the achievement of agreed
milestones and deliverables, according to the following table:

Table 1. Application Process and Timeline
Stages

No. of AI
Products
selected

Funding

General Tasks to be performed:

Stage 1 Pitch &
Select

50 AI
Products

5.000€/ AI
Provider

●

Participate in at least 2 Webinars about AIoD
Platform

●

Complete onboarding into AIoD Platform/
Marketplace.
Submit revised version of the Technical &
Business Proposal
Participate in Pitching Session during Event 1
Provide full feedback about AIoD Platform

●
●
●

Duration

1 month

8

Stage 2 Integration

20 AI
Products

35.000€/ AI
Provider

3 months

●
●

Participate in Mentoring sessions
Full integration of AI Product in AIoD Platform
Implementation of Business Plan for the
developed product when offered in the AIoD
Platform
Guarantee EU27 market readiness for AI
Product
Submit sub-Project proposal to implement AI
Product in AI Adopter
Participate in Pitching Session during Event 2
Serve as beta-tester for AIoD Platform

●
●
●
●

Implement the AI Product in AI Adopter
Participate in Mentoring sessions
Participate in the in-person Event 3
Serve as beta-tester for AIoD Platform

3 months

●
●
●
●
●

Stage 3 Deployment

10 AI
Products +
AI Adopter
(Consortia)

35.000€ /
project
AI Provider =
20.000€
AI Adopter =
15.000€

3.4. Application process (for Stage 1)
The F6S platform will be the single-entry point for all applications to the AIoD OC1-PrivateSector.
Interested applicants should register at the F6S page (www.f6s.com). The relevant links and timings for
the application process are provided in Table 2, but are subject to change (Table 8, Open Call and
Programme deadlines).
Table 2. Application Process and Timeline 6

Phase

Description

Application

Fill in and submit application including:
●
●

Application form on F6S:
https://www.f6s.com/aiod-oc1privatesector/apply
Technical & Business Proposal:
https://www.aiodp.ai/open_calls/

Timeline
Launch date:
08/04/2026
Submission
deadline:
08/06/2026
(17h00 CET)

Eligibility &
Technical check

DeployAI Consortium performs internal checks of the
eligibility criteria of the applications

08/06/2026 to
30/06/2026

Application
evaluation

An evaluation board reviews the received applications,
scoring them based on the evaluation criteria. The
evaluators rank the applications and select the topranked projects in online interviews.

01/07/2026 to
31/07/2026

Announcement of
the results

All applicants receive a written letter about approval or
rejection of their project. The successful projects start
the onboarding phase in the DeployAI Programme.

Up to 10/08/2026

The submission date for applications is final. All other dates, including those of the programme, may be
subject to change. In such case, all beneficiaries will be informed accordingly.
6

9

The submission date for applications is final. All other dates, including those of the Programme, may
be subject to change.

3.5. Other application requirements and considerations
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

Submission:
Applications
must
be
submitted
via
https://www.f6s.com/aiodoc1privatesector/apply.
Any other submission method will not be accepted.
Complete application: All mandatory questions must be answered, and all requested
documents must be uploaded. Incomplete applications will be disqualified.
Accept terms: Applicants must agree to the application's terms and conditions.
English language: All applications and Programme communication must be in English.
Document format: Unless otherwise agreed, all documents in all phases must be submitted
electronically in PDF format without printing restrictions.
Deadline:
○ Failure to submit the application by the submission deadline, regardless of cause (e.g.,
network issues, multiple browsers or windows), is not acceptable as an extenuating
circumstance. It is recommended to apply well before the deadline.
○ Resubmissions are possible provided the call deadline has not passed but are only
guaranteed if requested at least 2 business days before the deadline via
support@f6s.com.
○ The deadline may be extended only in case of unforeseen F6S platform technical
issues. All applicants will be notified of the new deadline.
Review future documents: Applicants are encouraged to get familiar with the documents that
will be required in the contracting phase (see Section - Contracting Phase)
Notifications: Applicants are encouraged to enable F6S notifications for the Programme in their
profile settings to ensure communications regarding their application are received.
Applicants list: A full list of applicants containing their basic information will be created for
statistical and transparency purposes and shared with the European Commission.

3.6. Technical / feasibility assessment
As part of the technical and feasibility assessment, applicants must demonstrate that their AI Product
is delivered in a containerized format (e.g. Docker or equivalent 7), ensuring portability, scalability, and
smooth integration within the AIoD Platform infrastructure. Clear documentation of the containerization
approach and deployment requirements must be provided as part of the application.
The product must demonstrate generalizability. It must be designed as an adaptable, high-quality
product that can be readily configured and utilized by broader end-users. In alignment with European
digital sovereignty and values, solutions must promote open innovation and actively avoid vendor lockin. Their core architecture should demonstrate open standards and interoperable interfaces. The
solution must be highly transferable, modular, and easily adaptable to new clients or infrastructure
environments without locking end-users into proprietary, closed ecosystems.

7

Docker and Helm charts are the current stack used in the platform.

10

4. How will applications be evaluated and selected?
Given its Programme Implementation structure, AIoD OC1-PrivateSector will have several evaluation
moments.

Figure 1. 3 Stage Approach & Timeline for Evaluation

Table 4. Description of evaluation moments

Evaluation

Goal

Types of Evaluators

Evaluation no. 1

•

Internal Evaluators
(eligibility) and
External Evaluators

•

Evaluation no. 2

•

Evaluation no. 3

•

Eligibility check done by Internal Evaluation
Committee (IEC).
Select best 50 applications for Stage 1 from the
pool of eligible applicants done by External
Evaluators.
Select the 20 best AI Products to fully integrate the
solution onto AIoD Platform (Stage 2).
Select the best 10 Projects (lead by previously
selected AI providers) to be implemented in AI
Adopter.

Joint effort between
IEC and relevant
stakeholders

11

Figure 2. Evaluation & Selection for Stage 1

Figure 2 summarises the Evaluation and selection process for Stage 1 (Evaluation no. 1). Evaluation no.
2 and no.3 will be done differently (check section 4.2).
DeployAI Consortium reserves the right, at any stage of the process, to request additional information
and/or documentation to clarify any doubts regarding the eligibility of the applicant(s) and/or their
application. Interviews with AI Providers may also be requested, if deemed necessary.

4.1. Eligibility check
An initial eligibility verification will be done to filter out and discard non-eligible applications, at
Evaluation no.1. An application is only considered eligible if it meets all the eligibility criteria and
requirements listed in Section 3, related with: type of applicant(s), TRL level, countries, funding,
language, documentation. Eligibility will also be checked for the Projects submitted in Stage 3: type of
applicant(s) (AI Adopters), countries, language, documentation.
The eligibility check enables the establishment of a shortlist of applications to be evaluated in the next
step of the evaluation process, concerning Stage 1. Applications marked as non-eligible (for not meeting
one or more of the eligibility criteria) will receive a rejection letter with a justification.

4.2. Evaluation no.1 (Selection for Stage 1)
The Evaluation no.1 will be done by an expert evaluation board, i.e, a collective body composed of
individual members, external to the project consortium, with relevant experience in the AI domains,
having signed and duly agreed in advance a written commitment of confidentiality and absence of any
conflicts of interest that might influence the impartial and objective analysis and evaluation of all
submitted proposals.

12

4.2.1. Evaluation criteria & scoring
In Evaluation no. 1, each application will be reviewed by a minimum of two experts from the expert
evaluation board. Applications will be scored against the following criteria:
Table 5. Evaluation Criteria - Evaluation 1

Criteria Name

Description

C1

Tech/solution
concept

● Applicants describe the AI Product and all relevant information
about: containerization readiness, interoperability, TRL.
● Applicants explain of the differentiation, innovation and
scalability and EU27 market readiness.
● Applicants demonstrate the added value of the AI Product in
AIoD Platform, describing how it aligns with both the Open Call
and the AIoD Platform, and which core components will be used,
if any. The concept must be unique and impactful.

C2

Team skills &
expertise

● Applicants demonstrate their capacity, skills, and expertise to
deliver according to the proposed plan
● Applicants demonstrate have the capacity to go beyond the
implementation of the use-case/pilot, scaling the concept into a
potential sustainable product/service.

C3

Implementation Plan

•

•

C4

Ambition &
scalability potential

•
•

•

Proposals demonstrate how widely the solution will be used,
the impact and direct contribution to the reinforcement of the
AIOD and the adoption of AI products across various
sectors/domains (private & public).
Quality of the Business Model, as a win-win concept for the AI
providers and the AIoD Platform.
Applicants show clarity and ambition of the long-term vision for
the AI product.
Applicants demonstrate the scalability of the AI product and
business model, including the ability to expand to additional
users, markets, or application domains.
Applicants explain the potential for growth through the AIoD
Platform, including opportunities to reach new adopters,
partners, or markets at European or international level.

Table 8 (item ‘Score, Expert’) defines how individual criteria will be scored. The minimum threshold for
each criterion will be 6 (six) out of 10 (ten), while the overall score threshold will be 18 (eighteen) out of
30 (thirty). Applications that do not meet the minimum thresholds (per criteria or overall score) will be
excluded from the Programme.
After the individual scoring by the expert evaluation board, the Open Call Management Team will:
●
●
●

Check for large differences (over 2 points per criterion) between evaluators.
If differences exist, evaluators meet to discuss and agree on scores.
If an agreement isn't reached, another expert may be invited to provide a third assessment.

13

4.2.2. Ranking & selection
All applications will be ranked in a single list based on their overall score, which is calculated from the
average scores given by the evaluators. If multiple applications have the same overall score, the
following tie-breaking criteria will be applied in this order:
1. Rule 1 - In case there are proposals in the same position after the initial ranking, priority will be
given to proposals that have higher impact and market potential (C1)
2. Rule 2 - In case following Rule 1 there are proposals in the same position, priority will be given
to proposals that present better scores for implementation (C3)
3. Rule 3 - In case following Rule 2 there are proposals in the same position, priority will be given
to proposals with better scores for Team skills (C2)
4. Rule 4 - In case following Rule 3 there are proposals in the same position, priority will be given
to the projects that have a woman as lead coordinator.

4.3. Evaluation no. 2 (Selection for Stage 2)
The Internal Evaluation Committee (IEC) and other relevant stakeholders will jointly do the Evaluation
no. 2 and no. 3. These evaluations will consist of scoring the same Criteria as Evaluation no.1 and the
same score range.
For Evaluation no. 2, evaluators will attribute:
● 50% of scoring based on the revised version of the Technical & Business Proposals for AIoD
Platform, following the same criteria as in section 4.2.1;
● 50% of scoring based on the Pitching Session (Event 1): Relevance & Quality

4.4. Evaluation no. 3 (Selection for Stage 3)
Following the same reasoning, for Evaluation no. 3, evaluators will attribute:
● 40% of scoring based on the submitted Project to implement the AI Product in the AI Adopter;
● 30% on degree of integration with the Platform (Developed in Stage 2)
● 30% of scoring based on the Pitching Session (Event 2) : Relevance & Quality

Extra criteria may be added for Evaluation no.3. This will be duly communicated to the beneficiaries by
the beginning of Stage 2.

4.5. Appeals
The applicant is entitled to appeal in each Evaluation moment. Within (3) three working days of receiving
i) a rejection letter informing the application as non-eligible or ii) an ESR of non-acceptance, an applicant
may submit a request for an appeal if they believe the results of the eligibility checks have not been
correctly applied, or if they feel that there has been a shortcoming in the way their application has been
evaluated.
All requests for appeal must be sent to the OC Management Team to aiod.opencalls@f6s.com and
must:

14

●
●
●
●

Focus on aspects concerning the evaluation of the application (e.g. admissibility or eligibility
checks, evaluation procedure, etc), not their merits.
Clearly describe the complaint.
Be received within the time limit (3 working days) from the reception of a rejection letter
considering the application as non-eligible or the ESR information letter delivered.
Sent by the entities’ legal representative that has also submitted the application.

Note that the Evaluation 1 is carried out by highly qualified external experts. DeployAI will neither
question nor interfere with their original evaluation. Mere repetitions of the content of the application or
disagreements with the result or reasoning of the technical evaluation will not be considered.

5. What happens after selection in Evaluation no.1?
Applicants that are selected to proceed to Stage 1 will be invited to the contracting phase, where
administrative and financial details and documents are verified and validated.
Furthermore, to carry out mandatory Know Your Customer (KYC) checks, proof of residency and proof
of ID from one or more members of the organisation(s) is required.
The steps of this phase are (see Table 8 for complementary information):
1. Inclusion of comments (if any) provided in the Evaluation Summary Report as part of the subgrant agreement (contract).
2. Validation of the entities based on the provision of the following documentation:
● Formal proof of the entity’s legal existence and tax activity.
● Proof of the SME status, including the SME Declaration Form).
● Declaration of Honour, for all participating entities, signed by the legal representative
of the entity.
● Consortium Declaration of Honour, signed by the legal representative of each
consortium partner.
● Bank Account Information.
3. Signing of the sub-grant agreement between DeployAI Consortium, represented by its Treasurer
(F6S).

The same verification process will be followed for the selected AI Adopters, prior to the signature of a
consortium sub-grant agreement, for the implementation of Stage 3.

Additional considerations:
●
●
●
●
●

A valid VAT is mandatory.
The sub-grant agreements (contracts) are final and cannot be altered.
Electronic digital signatures are required for signed documents (unless otherwise agreed).
Deadlines for document submission will be provided and will normally be concluded within
two weeks.
Failure to complete the negotiation in time will result in rejection.

15

6. What is the AIoD OC1-PrivateSector and its requirements?
6.1. Programme Stages
The AIoD OC1-PrivateSector includes 3 key Stages:
1. Stage 1 - Pitch & Select
2. Stage 2 - Integration
3. Stage 3 - Deployment

6.1.1. Stage 1 - Pitch & Select
After the proposal has been accepted and the sub-grant agreement has been signed, the SME will enter
the Pitch & Select phase. 50 AI Products will be selected for Stage 1 and become beneficiaries of the
Project, under the DeployAI FSTP Programme.
Stage 1 lasts for one month. During the first week of Stage1, the 50 selected beneficiaries will attend 2
webinars about the AIoD Platform, about the core components, specific features and the Business
Model AIoD Platform. After these webinars, applicants will have the opportunity to fine tune their
Technical & Business Proposal, better detailing how the core components of the AIoD Platform will be
used by the AI Providers and how the AI Product will contribute to the AIoD Platform Business Plan. By
the end of the second week, they will be able to submit an improved version of the Technical & Business
Proposal, to be considered for Stage 2.
They will also be asked to give constructive feedback about the AIoD Platform, through a specific survey,
and promote it in their networks.
The Technical & Business Proposal will be presented by the applicant in a Pitching Session organized
during Event 1. This event will take place in the late September an European member-state, and inperson participation is mandatory. Details regarding the Pitching session will be shared with the
selected applicants, upon signature of the Sub-grant Agreement.
20 Projects will be selected to proceed to Stage. The remaining 30 sub-projects will be automatically
terminated and these companies will not be eligible to reapply for any other Stage 3 of the process.

6.1.2. Stage 2 - Integration
During a 3-month period, these 20 beneficiaries will be fully integrating their solution into the AIoD
Platform and implementing their Business Plans. This integration must include the following
components:
● Usage of at least one the core components available in AIoD Platform to further develop their
solution. The full description of these components can be found in www.aiodp.ai.
● Full integration in Marketplace and Business Navigator
● Guarantee EU27 readiness for their AI Products.
Plus, during Stage 2, beneficiaries will serve officially as beta-testers for the AIoD Platform, with the
support of the mentors and DeployAI project partners.

16

By the end of Stage 2, participants must submit a report outlining their work and key results, particularly
in terms of integration progress, traction growth, and user adoption within the AIoD Platform.
In addition, to be considered for Stage 3, beneficiaries will be required to submit a sub-project proposal
detailing how they plan to implement their solution with an AI Adopter. The selection of the AI Adopter
is the responsibility of the AI provider. Plus, the template and information about the criteria for
evaluating the subprojects will be shared upon selection to Stage 2.
To facilitate all these activities, structured mentoring will be present throughout Stage 2, as it bridges
capability gaps by providing strategic guidance, risk mitigation, and tailored feedback throughout the
Stage, accelerating progress and improving the quality of results. It also strengthens alignment with
Programme objectives and maximises public investment by increasing the likelihood of sustainable,
market-ready outcomes.
Both the results of the integration processes and the submitted sub-Projects will be presented by each
applicant in Event 2, taking place an European member-state in November 2026. Same as Event 1, this
is a mandatory in-person event and representatives from both the AI Provider and the AI Adopter are
expected.
Dates, location and further details regarding the Pitching session will be shared with the applicants upon
selection for Stage 2.

6.1.3. Stage 3 - Deployment
From the pool of up to 20 sub-projects submitted by beneficiaries of Stage 2, 10 sub-Projects will be
selected for Stage 3.
During a 3-month period, these 10 consortia will be implementing their projects and preparing their use
cases, while still serving as beta-testers for the AIoD Platform.
Implementation and KPIs will be monitored by dedicated Mentors throughout the 3 months, to
strengthen both implementation capacity and impact.
By the end of Stage 3, participants must submit a report outlining their work as a Consortium and key
results, in terms of deployment progress, traction growth, and user adoption within the AIoD Platform.
They will also submit a Use Case considering their integration and deployment process, for which they
will receive a template
Both Use Case and the outcomes of the 3-Stage process will be presented in Event 3, as to showcase
the AIoD Platform adoption. Same as Event 1 and 2, this is a mandatory in-person event, taking place in
early 2027, and representatives from both the AI Provider and the AI Adopter are expected.
Specific Dates, location and further details regarding the Pitching session will be shared with the
applicants upon selection for Stage 3.

17

6.2. Programme review
6.2.1. Review summary
Each beneficiary will go through 3 Stages. Payments 1 and 2 are aligned with the Stages 1 and 2 and
are to be processed by the end of the implementation period. Payment for Stage 3 will be divided in 2
parts, according to the implementation phase.
Table 6. Programme review and Payment timeline

Stage

Payment
no.

Item

Description

Timeline for
submission of
requirements

Stage 1 Pitch
&
Select

PAYMENT
1

Requirement

R1.1 - Submission of the updated Technical
& Business Proposals

R1.1 - 5 working days
before Event 1

R1.2 - Submission of Travel Report for Event
1

R1.2 - 5 working days
after Event 1

R1.3 - Answer to Official Survey regarding
AIoD Platform

R1.3 - End of Stage 1

Stage 2 Integration

PAYMENT
2

Result

Payment of 5.000€

Timeline for
payment

End of month 2 / October 2026

Requirement

R2.1 - Submission of Travel Report for Event
2

R2.1 - End of Stage 2

R2.2 - Report on Stage 2 implementation
and expected Deliverables/KPIs (to be
defined according to Business Concept)

R2.3 - End of Stage 2

R2.3 - Confirmation of requested actions for
beta-testing

R2.2 - End of Stage 2
R2.4 - 5 working days
before Event 2.

R2.4 - Submission of a sub-project to be
implemented with AI Adopter (optional, if
they want to be selected for stage 3)

Stage 3 Deploymen
t

PAYMENT
3

Result

Payment of 35.000€

Timeline

End of month 5 / January 2027

Requirement

R3.1 - Sub-Grant Agreement signature for
implementation of sub-project
R3.2 - Identification of expected
Deliverables/KPIs (to be defined according
to the specific sub-project)

PAYMENT
4

R3.1 - Start of Stage 3
R3.2 - 10 working days
after start of Stage 3

Result

Payment of 30% of Stage 3 expected grant (AI Provider = 6.000€ | AI
Adopter = 4.500€)

Timeline

End of month 6/ February 2026

Requirement

R4.1 - Submission of Travel Report for Event
3
R4.2- Report on Stage 3 implementation
and expected Deliverables/KPIs (to be
defined according to the specific subproject)

R4.1 - R4.4: End of
Stage 3

18

R4.3 - Impact self-assessment Stage 1 Stage 3 (AI Provider)
R4.4 - Confirmation of requested actions for
beta-testing
Result

Payment of 70% of Stage 3 expected grant (AI Provider = 14.000€ | AI
Adopter = 10.500€)

Timeline

End month 9/ May 2027

Reports must be submitted at least one week in advance, so that the reviewers will have enough time
to prepare. During the review, representatives of the beneficiary should present their work and answer
questions.
After each successful review and within 5 working days, the beneficiary should send the relevant
payment request document.

7. What else is important to know?
7.1. Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)
Solutions developed and results achieved by the third parties belong to the third parties. Applicants will
remain the sole owners of their respective IPRs and retain the IPR for their solutions.
Regarding the evaluation, each evaluator will sign an Agreement including confidentiality clauses before
receiving access to the applications database to protect the applicants' intellectual property and
sensitive non-disclosed information.

7.2. On conflicts of interest
Applicants must not have any actual and/or potential conflict of interest with the DeployAI selection
process and during the project implementation. All cases of conflict of interest will be assessed case
by case.

7.3. Ethical issues
DeployAI complies with the fundamental ethical issues, particularly those outlined in the “European
Code of Conduct for Research Integrity”.
●
●
●
●

All applicants must submit a self-assessment ethics questionnaire, available in the Proposal
Template.
If the applicant confirms the existence of potential ethical issues, they must contact the
DeployAI Helpdesk for guidance, as required.
The DeployAI consortium will verify the declaration's consistency with the application contents
and may contact applicants to resolve any ethical issues.
Applications that fail to properly address ethical issues or inadequately deal with privacy
aspects will be rejected.

19

7.4. Data protection
In order to process and evaluate applications, and manage project implementation, the DeployAI
consortium will need to collect Personal and Industrial Data.

●
●

●
●

●

●

F6S Network Ireland Limited, will act as Data Controller for data submitted through the F6S
platform for these purposes. Please see our privacy policy here.
A Data Protection Officer (DPO) has been appointed by F6S generally, to ensure compliance
with data protection regulations, such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and
that personal data is collected, processed, and stored in a secure manner.
The F6S platform's system design and operational procedures ensure that data is managed in
compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR).
Each applicant will accept the F6S terms to ensure compliance. Please refer to
https://www.f6s.com/privacy-policy to review the F6S platform’s privacy policy and data
security policy.
Apart from the F6S platform, data will also be stored in the F6S Google Drive, and in the project
repository on Microsoft Azure managed by the project coordinator FRAUNHOFER
GESELLSCHAFT ZUR FORDERUNG DER ANGEWANDTEN FORSCHUNG EV.
Note that the DeployAI consortium must retain generated data until five years after the balance
of the DeployAI project is paid or longer if there are ongoing procedures (such as audits,
investigations or litigation). In this case, the data must be kept until their conclusion.

7.5. Confidentiality
Confidentiality obligations:
●

●
●
●
●

Selected applicants are required to maintain confidential any project data, documents, invoices
and other materials (in any form) during the implementation of the activities and for 5 years
after project completion.
This confidentiality period can be extended by agreement with the EC and the DeployAI
consortium.
Information shared during the project, whether written or spoken, is only considered confidential
if the DeployAI agrees and confirms it in writing within 15 days.
Confidential information must only be used for project implementation, unless otherwise
agreed upon.
Any information shared during the application stage will be treated as confidential.

7.6. Promotion of the action and ensuring visibility of the EU funding
The beneficiary must promote the project, the DeployAI project and its results, by providing targeted
information to multiple audiences (including the media and the public) in a strategic and effective
manner and to highlight the financial support of the EC, including on the official third-party website. The
DeployAI Communication team will guide and support these communication activities to selected
beneficiaries.

7.7. Checks and reviews
The EC may, at any time during the implementation of the sub-project and up to five years after the end
of the sub-project, arrange for a check and review activity to be carried out, by external auditors, or by

20

the EC services themselves, including the European Anti-Fraud office (OLAF). The procedure shall be
deemed to be initiated on the date of receipt of the relevant letter sent by the EC.
There will be no financial checks, reviews, or audits to check costs, since beneficiaries have no
obligation to document the costs incurred for the action. Checks, reviews, and audits will focus on the
technical implementation of the action.

8. Relevant links and contacts
The DeployAI Consortium will provide information to the applicants via the F6S page, so that all
information (questions and answers) is visible to all participants.
●
●
●
●
●

Platform Homepage: https://www.aiodp.ai/
Open call application form: https://www.f6s.com/aiod-oc1privatesector/apply
Contact us: aiod.opencalls@f6s.com
Online Q&A/ discussion board: https://www.f6s.com/aiod-oc1privatesector/discuss
F6S platform support team: support@f6s.com
(For issues with the submission, resubmission, access to the platform, etc.)

21

9. Relevant Open Call definitions
Table 7. Acronyms & Definitions
Acronym

Explanation/ Definition

AIoD

AI-on-Demand

AWU

Annual Work Unit

EC

European Commission

IEC

Internal Evaluation Committee

SME

Small and Medium Sized Enterprise

ESR

Evaluation Summary Report

KYC

Know Your Customer

OC

Open Call

Table 8. Terms & Definitions
Term

Definition

AI Provider

Organization that develops, supplies, or operates artificial intelligence
technologies for others to use. Typically includes Model developers,
Cloud AI Platforms and Specialized AI Solution Providers.

AI Adopter

Organization from private sector that uses artificial intelligence
systems created by an AI provider to improve/enable/support its
operations, products, or services.

Applicant(s)

The legal entity or group of legal entities that intend(s) to submit or
that submitted an application to the Open Call.

Application Eligibility
Criteria

Criteria used to assess if an application can be considered for the
open call. Possible values (Yes/No).

Application Eligible or
Non-Eligible

Application that is or is not compliant with eligibility criteria.

Application Timestamp

Timestamp of the final submission of an application. If the application
is reopened and resubmitted the last date will be considered.

Bank Account Information

Document(s) where the beneficiary provides information of the bank
account to which payments will be made during the project
implementation.

Beneficiary or 3rd Party

An entity or a consortium that submitted an application to the open
call that was accepted to be funded, and have signed, or are in the
process of signing, a sub-grant agreement.

Consortium

Set of legal entities (Lead and partner(s)) that are cumulatively
responsible to implement the project as defined in the Grant
Agreement signed with the European Commission.

Consortium Declaration
of Honour

Declaration where the applicants/ beneficiaries, participating as a
consortium, declare they accept all conditions of the open call,
acceleration process & Programme; and agree - if applicable - on
budget share. One CDoH is required for each sub-granted project.

22

Term

Definition

Contract Deadline

Date and time until when the selected entities need to provide
contractual information.

Declaration of Honour
(DoH)

Declaration where the applicant/ beneficiary declares they accept all
conditions of the open call, acceleration process & Programme. One
DoH is required for each applicant/ beneficiary.

DeployAI Consortium

Set of 27 legal entities responsible to deliver DeployAI Project - funded
by the European Union Digital Europe Programme (DIGITAL) under
grant agreement №.101146490.

External Evaluator

Expert hired by the consortium to assist in the evaluation of the Open
Call. External evaluators cannot have conflicts of interest and are
bound by a confidentiality agreement.

F6S Application Form

Application form available in F6S Platform.

F6S Platform

Platform provided by F6S.

FSTP

Financial support to third parties. Payments made to entities that are
not members of the consortium.

FSTP – Lump Sum

Payment made to the third party based on the achievement of a
milestone.

Internal evaluation
committee

Group of appropriately qualified persons of the consortium partners
that are assigned the responsibility of performing evaluations or
reviews at any stage of the open call implementation or Programme.

Mentor

Person from the consortium that works closely with the beneficiary to
foster communication with the consortium and assess progress of the
project. The mentor may be part of an evaluation committee.

Open Call

Competitive process to access a Programme.

Open Call and
Programme deadlines

The project has planned the Programme carefully, but unexpected
things can happen. The application deadline is fixed, and will only
change if something unforeseen occurs. Other dates, including of the
Programme, are flexible and may be adjusted as needed, and
communicated to all applicants.

Open Call close date

Date and time when applications close.

Open Call selection
prioritisation

Rules used to order applications.

Proof of Legal Existence

Company/ organisation register, official journal or other official
document per country showing the name of the organisation, the legal
address and registration number and a copy of a document proving
VAT registration (in case the VAT number does not show on the
registration extract or its equivalent).

Proof of SME Status

Proof of the SME condition is required:
●

●

If the applicant has been fully validated as an SME on the
Beneficiary Register of the EC Participant Portal, the PIC
number must be provided.
Provision of the signed (with a valid e-signature) SME
Declaration (Annex 5): in the event the beneficiary declares
being non-autonomous, the balance sheet and profit and loss
account (with annexes) for the last period for upstream and

23

Term

Definition

●

downstream organisations is required. A Status Information
Form may be requested, which includes the headcount (AWU),
balance, profit & loss accounts of the latest closed financial
year and the relation, upstream and downstream, of any linked
or partner company.
Supporting documents: In cases where either the number of
employees or the ownership is not clearly identified: any other
supporting documents which demonstrate headcount and
ownership such as payroll details, annual reports, national
regional, association records, etc.

Reserve List

Eligible applications that were not selected for funding which can be
invited in case selected applications do not provide contractual data.

Schedule for payments to
Beneficiaries

All payments to beneficiaries are dependent on the successful review
of deliverables/ reports at the end of each Stage, and reception by the
consortium of the corresponding payment request.
All payments will be made with undue delay preferably no later than 30
calendar days after the reception of the financial statement.

Score, Expert

Unless otherwise stated, experts will rank each criterion with marks
between 1 and 10. Half point scores are not given. Score values will
indicate the following assessments:
●

●
●
●

●
●

Score, Per Committee

1-2: Fail. The application fails to address the criterion under
examination or cannot be judged due to missing or incomplete
information.
3-4: Very poor. The criterion is addressed in an unsatisfactory
manner.
5: Poor. There are serious inherent weaknesses.
6-7: Good. While the application broadly addresses the
criterion, there are significant weaknesses that would need
correcting.
8-9: Very Good. The application addresses the criterion well,
although certain improvements are possible.
10: Excellent. The application successfully addresses all
relevant aspects of the criterion in question. Any shortcomings
are minor.

When the evaluation is made by a committee, the average score of
each criterion is rounded to the nearest point or half point, before
computing the overall score.
Overall score is the sum of the scores of each criterion multiplied by
the respective weight (if any), rounded to the nearest integer value.

8

Selected application

Application that was selected to participate in the Open Call
Implementation.

SME

An incorporated enterprise that complies with the rules defined by the
European Commission to be qualified as an SME8

SME – Autonomous
Enterprise

An autonomous enterprise is not a partner with or linked to another
enterprise

https://single-market-economy.ec.europa.eu/smes/sme-fundamentals/sme-definition_en

24

Term

Definition

SME – Linked Enterprise

Linked enterprises are those that form a group through the direct or
indirect control of the majority of voting rights of an enterprise by
another or through the ability to exercise a dominant influence on an
enterprise.

SME – Partner Enterprise

The enterprise holds a minimum of 25% (Capital or voting rights in
another enterprise, or 25% (Capital or voting rights) are owned by
another enterprise.

SME Declaration Form

Declaration where the SME status is assessed.

Sub-grant Agreement

Signed between the Project Consortium, represented by its
Coordinator and the beneficiary. The sub-grant agreement will also
include the comments (if any) of the application’s ESR to the work
plan.

Sub-granted Project

The project that has been selected and awarded, implemented
according to the approved work plan, and in accordance with the
signed Sub-grant Agreement.

(sub-project)

